#summary List of achievements and how to earn them

Some achievements can be earned in skirmish/freeplay mode as well.

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Progress/Mission related =

== Dargslayer ==

*You eliminated all Dargslan from the galaxy*

Automatically awarded when you conquer all of their planets or they surrender.

== Commander ==

*You have been promoted to commander*

Completing mission about the stolen prototype (M17) will grant you this, once you get to your new ship.

== Grand Admiral ==

*You have been promoted to grand admiral*

The first battle with the Dargslans will trigger this achievement after the promotion cutscene.

= Count-based =

== Oldest man ==

*You played 100 game years*

In super fast mode (e.g., 60 min/step, 10 step / second) this might take about 25 hours.

== Defense contract ==

*All your planets are equipped with at least 3 planetary guns and one shield*

You can mix gun and shield versions. You need to have at least 3 planets.

== Quarter of the pie ==

*You own 25 planets*

By either conquest or colonization, you need to own 25 planets, which is quite possible in levels 4 and 5.

== All seeing eye ==

*At least 80% of the galaxy is covered by radar*

Earnable possibly during level 5 where all of your planets are equipped with Hubble 2 orbital radar for maximum coverage.
 
== Research assistant ==

*You researched 5 technologies*

Earnable from level 3 onwards.

== Food for thought ==

*Your food production is above 1.000.000*

You'll need dozens of planets with high population.

== Salvage ==

*You destroyed 1.000 enemy ships*

Aliens usually have fleets with 58 ships in it. Destroy approximately 17 fleets.

_This achievement is not yet tracked_

= Other =

== Embargo ==

*You destroyed your first Trader ship*

Shoot at them until they get destroyed. Preferably outside of Trader-related missions.

== Conqueror ==

*Conquered the first enemy planet*

You may get this when you conquer one of the Garthog planets in level 3.

== Revolutioner ==

*One of your colony has revolted*

Easily attainable in Level 1 if you let Achilles unattended.

== Columbus ==

*You colonized your first planet*

Once colony ship becomes available in level 4, you may colonize Center 16, one of the nearest and possibly already revealed planet.


== Pirate Bay ==

*You lost a planet to the pirates*

Easily attainable in level 1 if Achilles is left alone.