#summary Release notes for the Game.

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Version 0.95.030 - Beta + bugfixes =
  * Released: 2012-07-13 15:00 CET
  * *Gergely Harrach* is now an official contributor, welcome!
  * Added a quick-research panel to the game where you can pick a research, stop a running research, adjust money on the current research and check the current and required lab numbers of technologies.
  * Fixed research/production label images to be consistent across languages ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=63 Issue #63])
  * Added tooltips to many buttons and labels. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=76 Issue #76])
  * Clicking on "Other..." in the options screen now exits fullscreen mode so the dialog becomes visible. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=337 Issue #337])
  * Ability to override existing save "slots" ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=341 Issue #341])
  * The game now requires confirmation on returning to the main menu to avoid accidental quits ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=342 Issue #342])
  * Credits scrolls in double speed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=368 Issue #368])
  * AI now performs more actions on higher game speeds and does not limit itself on hard (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=452 #452], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=551 #551])
  * Fixed alien races not having access to certain leveled technologies such as tanks and vehicles ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=454 Issue #454])
  * Scaling up the UI now resizes the main window (but only when scaling is done in windowed mode) ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=516 Issue #516])
  * Fixed case where the space chat achievement was triggered through non-chat means ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=541 Issue #541])
  * Trader ships are no longer affected by ship formations during defend missions ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=544 Issue #544])
  * Double clicking on a game to load no longer gives 3 click-sounds ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=545 Issue #545])
  * Fixed some trader fleet history tracking causing error messages ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=548 Issue #548])
  * Fixed some NPE-related crashes and slowdowns ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=549 Issue #549])
  * Fixed the on-bridge repeated appearance of the Doctor for the test ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=550 Issue #550])
  * Fixed issue with subtitles not being displayed beyond a certain time into videos. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=552 Issue #552])
  * Fixed issue when user toggled fullscreen mode during video playback and the screen remained blacked out, allowing no interaction with the game. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=552 Issue #552])
  * Fixed crash in space battles ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=553 Issue #553])
  * Fixed many translation errors and typos in the german translation. Thanks *Silverntiger*. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=560 Issue #560])
  * Changed how building upgrade information is displayed. The cost, description and state is now readable in a tooltip if hovered over the panel or the stars. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=564 Issue #564])
  * Fixed rockets and bombs retreating with the fleet ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=565 Issue #565])
  * Fixed multi-rocket behavior and animation ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=565 Issue #565])
  * If a ship destroys its target, it goes automatically into guard mode ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=565 Issue #565])
  * Fixed cases when AI exploration fleets leave the starmap ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=566 Issue #566])
  * Added diplomatic options to the Garthog race (accessible in freeplay only). Note that the options are not yet translated into german. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=567 Issue #567])
  * Picture of the Free Traders was missing from the database ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=569 Issue #569])
  * Changed the behavior of the selection box in ground battles. This should allow more precise single and multiple unit selection ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=587 Issue #587])
  * Fixed case where unfinished ground defense buildings received guns as well ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=592 Issue #592])
  * Water waporators now provide 100% increase for population growth, e.g., when built, desert planets have 100% population growth instead of 50%. Upgrades can increase this to much higher level. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=599 Issue #599])
  * Fixed tax morale never going above 96% no matter how happy the colony was. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=600 Issue #600])
  * Fixed cases where more ships could be transferred into a fleet than allowed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=601 Issue #601])
  * Fixed issue with guns and starbases not re-targeting after their current target went out of range ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=602 Issue #602])
  * Modified behavior in case multiple ground shields are participating in  a space battle. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=603 Issue #603])
  * Fixed crashes and display inconsistencies on the information screen. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=604 Issue #604])

= Version 0.95 - Beta =
  * Released: 2012-06-09 12:30 CET
  * *Missions from earlier saves might not work properly. I suggest you start a new game, especially if you are still on levels 1 or 2.*
  * Level 1 missions happen much sooner than before. Watch out in case you run on higher simulation step speeds.
  * If the game crashes during gameplay, you'll get a crash save. Please include it along with any relevant autosaves when you report an issue.
  * Added group selection buttons to spacewar and groundwar. Use CTRL+0..9 to create, SHIFT+0..9 to recall, CTRL+A to select all. Left click on the star button to select all, right click to deselect all. Once a group exists, you can dismiss the group by right clicking on the shield. (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=108 #108], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=409 #409])
  * Added spacewar subsystem damage. Slots and ship health regenerates over a planet with military spaceport.  ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=184 Issue #184])
  * Added zoom button to colony screen. Left click to zoom in, right click to zoom out, middle click to reset to 100%. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=219 Issue #219])
  * Equipment screen now displays defensive and offensive values of selected items and the fleet in total ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=297 Issue #297])
  * Some colony needs are now displayed textually in the colony info screen and panel. (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=304 #304], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=533 Issue #533])
  * Two more achievements for level 1 (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=324 #324], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=529 #529])
  * In production/research screen, selecting a main or subcategory now jumps to the first technology or display the not-available animation if the list is empty. (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=389 #389], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=527 #527])
  * Added landing marker for space battle ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=390 Issue #390])
  * Improved hostility of AI players ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=404 Issue #404])
  * Added missing space-chat cases with traders and planet blockades ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=445 Issue #445])
  * Added statistical counters for battle performance ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=494 Issue #494])
  * Fixed a few button related errors ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=500 Issue #500])
  * Fixed rendering anomalies if primary and secondary UI scaling was enabled ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=501 Issue #501])
  * Added missing sound effect when selecting a planet on the starmap ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=502 Issue #502])
  * Battle statistics screen mostly won't popup if you attack a trader ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=503 Issue #503])
  * Fixed rendering anomalies with bridge/diplomacy projectors ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=504 Issue #504])
  * Music gets muted when a satellite deploy animation is running. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=505 Issue #505])
  * Fixed issues with Garthogs not reaching Benson's fleet ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=506 Issue #506])
  * Fixed wrong space-chat options in certain cases ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=507 Issue #507])
  * AI now properly refills its stations with rockets ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=508 Issue #508])
  * Fixed cases where ships could be added beyond the limits of the fleets ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=510 Issue #510])
  * Added indicator in equipment screen to note you need a battleship in order to add tanks to the fleet. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=512 Issue #512])
  * AI will now build defenses and tanks after the planet's economic and factory buildings have been built. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=513 Issue #513])
  * Groundwar AI now targets buildings and deploys its units at a random position. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=514 Issue #514])
  * Fixed mission specific space-chat errors ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=519 Issue #519])
  * Offline buildings under repair now display the wrench animation ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=520 Issue #520])
  * Mission time management diagnostics added ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=522 Issue #522])
  * Starmap planet information now displays the population delta ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=523 Issue #523])
  * Fixed trade income is not always showing up in the statusbar ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=524 Issue #524])
  * The Title and Intro videos now play once if you start the game. Skip with ESC or SPACE if you want. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=525 Issue #525])
  * Double click selects the same type units in space and groundwar. Triple clicks select the same categor of units. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=526 Issue #526])
  * Statistics related crash in autobattles fixed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=528 Issue #528])
  * Notification history is now always ordered by date ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=530 Issue #530])
  * You can now attempt to call for reinforcements anytime during level 2 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=531 Issue #531])
  * Main menu language selection buttons removed for now ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=532 Issue #532])
  * New main menu logo "Open Imperium Galactica" by Norbert ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=534 Issue #534])

= Version 0.94.425 - Fixes =
  * Released: 2012-05-29 14:10 CET
  * Added sort indicator to Info/Planets/Details view .([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=138 Issue #138])
  * Added buttons to change the auto-build settings (+/-), added "All" button to set the same settings on all your planets.([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=142 Issue #142])
  * Added "All" button to set the same taxation level on all your planets.
  * Achievements viewable from main menu, temporarily through an ugly button. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=221 Issue #221])
  * Slowed down fleets by 33% (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=258 #258], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=436 #436])
  * Infected planets now suffer -5 morale penalty. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=326 Issue #326])
  * In shipwalk, bridge, bar, cabin and diplomacy screens you can right click on a destination to go there instantly without the animation. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=335 Issue #335])
  * Error message and sound is played when the player has zero capacity and adds a production order (the order placement always succeeds). ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=386 Issue #386])
  * Traders now flee when they get to 75% health. Turning them back now skips the battle statistics screen ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=392 Issue #392])
  * The spacewar ship listing now contains the HP + SP = Defense values of the ships ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=408 Issue #408])
  * Building names and statuses can be hidded via the options screen. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=410 Issue #410])
  * Changed rocket and ECM behavior to give higher chance of hitting the target ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=430 Issue #430])
  * Most non-full screens can now be scaled to fit the window independently of the global scaling, enabled via an options setting ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=442 Issue #442])
  * Display of current and delta relation during diplomatic conversation with the aliens ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=455 Issue #455])
  * Reaching an attack target in space now starts the battle much sooner ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=462 Issue #462])
  * Trader fleet behavior changes and fixes ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=473 Issue #473])
  * The game now creates a named save on each level start ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=474 Issue #474])
  * Fixed some space-chat related problems ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=476 Issue #476])
  * Level 2 now allows calling the Colonel for reinforcements anytime (but might not grant them) ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=477 Issue #477])
  * Fixed video messages  in case the virus missions fail ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=478 Issue #478])
  * One of the traders can now instantly heal any infected colonies ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=479 Issue #479])
  * Fixed missing red blinking boxes around certain fleets ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=481 Issue #481])
  * Fixed some scripting issues ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=482 Issue #482])
  * Fixed virus mission finish not detected when multiple planets were infected ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=483 Issue #483])
  * Fixed prototype fleet not appearing in level 2 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=484 Issue #484])
  * Traders should now properly remember where they came from (but clean new game might be required) ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=485 Issue #485])
  * Fixed many diplomatic option display and selection issues ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=486 Issue #486])
  * Level 2 now lists an unresearched Cruiser 1 and Starbase 1 is not buildable any more (new game required) ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=490 Issue #490])
  * Record message on the database screen now features a red blinking circle indicating the ongoing record ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=491 Issue #491])
  * Fixed termination issues with the smuggler mission ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=492 Issue #492])
 

= Version 0.94.410 - More bugfixes =
  * Released: 2012-05-22 16:30 CET
  * Welcome *Sigee15* in the project as committer.
  * Diplomacy screen is now fully functional ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=210 Issue #210])
  * AI players now nag you with diplomatic messages ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=211 Issue #211])
  * Added generic objectives for level 2 to set the main course ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=325 Issue #325])
  * Financial information sums added ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=407 Issue #407])
  * Fixed scrolling of messages in the bridge message panel ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=437 Issue #437])
  * Fixed notification about research being stopped due lack of something ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=438 Issue #438])
  * Fixed AI managed player planets not replacing and slowly adding buildings ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=439 Issue #439])
  * Fixed missing traders in protect mission 2 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=440 Issue #440])
  * Fixed crash in smuggler mission 9 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=441 Issue #441])
  * Fixed cases where the Thorin mission 5 would leave the controllable area before the garthogs catch up, leaving the player unable to attack ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=443 Issue #443])
  * Fixed issue where trader fleets forgot where they came from ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=444 Issue #444])
  * Fixed bridge animation not properly showing the message panel after closing it ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=450 Issue #450])
  * Clicking on record message during mission 15 (spy) now instantly completes the mission instead of the need to resume the game ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=451 Issue #451])
  * Fixed the Launcher reporting file access errors in certain cases ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=457 Issue #457/1])
  * Fixed cases where planet progress simulation crashed the game ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=457 Issue #457/2])
  * Fixed the crash due invalid chat references during virus mission 12 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=458 Issue #458])
  * Trader #4 now cures an infected planet when allowed to land ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=460 Issue #460]). Use the chat to figure out which one is it :)
  * Fixed missing or wrong chat labels (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=461 #461], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=469 #469])
  * Added error notification for the case when the build limit is reached ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=464 Issue #464])
  * Additional planet infections in mission 12 now send a message as well ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=467 Issue #467])
  * Fixed carrier mission 3 not working properly ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=471 Issue #471])
  * Fixed issue when auto-equipping planets and the space stations were not properly deduced from inventory ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=472 Issue #472])


= Version 0.94.400 - Bug fixes =
  * Released: 2012-05-13 18:00 CET
  * This is *NOT* the Beta yet.
  * Higher quality music by Norbert "Silver83" Pellny ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=428 Issue #428])
  * Notification if a research stops due lack of money or lab ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=295 Issue #295])
  * AI now sends diplomatic messages ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=321 Issue #321])
  * Spacewar Grid rendering ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=323 Issue #323])
  * Mission 7 related crashes fixed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=340 Issue #340])
  * Added missing cutscene for Mission 2 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=343 Issue #343])
  * Potential interesting fleets now receive red blinking box in missions ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=347 Issue #347])
  * Bridge on Level 2 now has equipment and information areas ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=352 Issue #352])
  * Mission 9 (smuggler) adjusted ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=362 Issue #362])
  * Pending battles are now saved and loaded (e.g., AI vs. AI or multiple attacks happening at the same time) ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=372 Issue #372])
  * Trader ship names now change with the game language settings ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=377 Issue #377])
  * Fixed bad original audio for the conversation with Kelly ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=378 Issue #378])
  * Mission 11 attack incoming message now happens earlier ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=382 Issue #382])
  * Garthog fleet now flies away in Mission 11 instead of just disappearing. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=385 Issue #385])
  * Fixed cases when a game save may be corrupted and cause error reports ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=388 Issue #388])
  * Mission 11 now allows two planets to be infected before you get fired ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=398 Issue #398])
  * Added more space chat cases for traders leaving and arriving at an infected planet ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=399 Issue #399]) 
  * Launcher is now able to start the game without Internet connection ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=400 Issue #400])
  * Bar link back to the corridor is not anymore overlapping with the conversation link ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=401 Issue #401])
  * Subsequent statusbar messages now show up without interruption ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=402 Issue #402])
  * Building fractional production display corrected ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=406 Issue #406])
  * Label typo fixes ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=412 Issue #412])
  * Mission 2 pirate attacks now timeout properly ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=416 Issue #416])
  * The X key resets the UI scaling only when the visual page is shown on the options screen ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=418 Issue #418])
  * Mission 4 and Mission 19 chat now affects the attackers by switching targets ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=419 Issue #419])
  * Audio warning added to Mission 3 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=421 Issue #421])
  * Crash when joining fleets ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=422 Issue #422])
  * Toggle fullscreen mode checkbox added to options screen ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=424 Issue #424])
  * Fixed AI attacking a demolished building indefinitely ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=425 Issue #425])
  * Fixed crash in battle statistics after ground battle ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=429 Issue #429])
  * Traders now have more speed, fleets without hyperdrive travel now faster ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=432 Issue #432])
  * Added option to allow skipping cutscenes with the mouse click (default off) ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=434 Issue #434])
  * Toggle fullscreen from options caused menu and control problems ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=435 Issue #435])

= Version 0.94.370 - Space chat =
  * Released: 2012-04-30 20:30 CET
  * Menu background screens cleared by *Norbert "Silver83" Pellny* ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=367 Issue #367])
  * Space chat implemented (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=215 #215], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=396 #396], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=322 #322])
  * Diplomacy language specific fixes ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=135 Issue #135])
  * Mission 5 internal cleanup ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=327 Issue #327])
  * Added user interface scaling and full screen cutscene options ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=329 Issue #329])
  * Launcher's german language integration was incomplete ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=357 Issue #357])
  * Missing animations fixed (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=358 #358], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=360 #360])
  * Level 2 shipwalk animation fixed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=363 Issue #363])
  * Mission 8 timeout management fixed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=364 Issue #364])
  * Double clicking on fleets opens wrong screen ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=365 Issue #365])
  * Production screen had missing labels ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=366 Issue #366])
  * Mission 5 timeout management fixed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=369 Issue #369])
  * Battle finish statistics assigns wrong counts to the player and enemy (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=370 #370], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=374 #374])
  * Loading a save sometimes failed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=371 Issue #371])
  * Fixed case where loading a save in game would clear attack orders.
  * Missing Achilles video ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=373 Issue #373])
  * Highlighting of traders in level 2 is working now ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=375 Issue #375]).
  * AI sometimes could not fire its rockets ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=376 Issue #376])
  * AI fighters, when low on health, will kamikaze into its target ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=376 Issue #376])
  * Mission 11 crash fixed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=380 Issue #380])
  * Enemy fleets shouldn't be moveable via keyboard commands ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=381 Issue #381])
  * Fixed missions where enemies had to catch up might not progress as intended ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=383 Issue #383])
  * Traders are now limited to the player's empire and travel to visible planets when infected ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=384  Issue #385])
  * Battleship 2 did not support hyperdrives v1-v4 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=397 Issue #397])
  

= Version 0.94.360 - German language support =
  * Released: 2012-04-21 11:00 CET
  * German language support
  * Promotion to Commander message and videos now always play ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=331 Issue #331])
  * Phsychologist name fix ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=313 Issue #313])
  * Options screen is restructured ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=303 Issue #303])
  * Crash when switching to fullscreen or back ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=330 Issue #330])
  * Missing Achilles video added ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=328 #328])
  * Fleet control issues, *Note: Level 1-3 players should consider starting a completely new game.* ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=336 Issue #336])
  * Tax calculation fixed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=320 Issue #320])
  * Load game problem fixed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=338 Issue #338])
  * Colony fire animation FPS increased ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=346 Issue #346])
  * The production screen was incorrectly accessible from Level 1 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=349 Issue #349])
  * Garthog pirates sometimes fly away ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=351 Issue #351])
  * Added screen-regions to the Level 1 bridge ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=350 Issue #350])
  * Music stop under dream cutscene ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=354 Issue #354])
  * Tile caching caused uneven lighting for certain objects ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=353 Issue #353])

= Version 0.94.350 - Basic diplomacy =
  * Released: 2012-04-09 10:30 CET
  * *I recommend starting a new game as some gameplay mechanic changes and fixes might not take effect under existing saves*. 
  * Added smoke and fire to buildings ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=73 Issue #73])
  * Added ability to set the game base speed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=153 Issue #153])
  * Few settings has been moved from Gameplay to Sound page in Options.
  * Multi headed rocket have an area effect ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=180 Issue #180])
  * Rockets and bombs have cooldown now as well ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=192 Issue #192])
  * Groundwar damaged units now emit smoke and fire ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=274 Issue #274])
  * AI now uses its rockets, but won't target campaign related ships ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=300 Issue #300])
  * Space stations have now specific equipment slot for rockets, which must be manually refilled or let the auto-refill take care of it.
  * Information screen tabs can be accessed via QWERASDF keys ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=309  Issue #309])
  * Debug functionality CTRL+M has been removed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=312 Issue #312])
  * Skirmish games may now be resumed after the win condition ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=305 Issue #305])
  * Added extra video message to Mission 21 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=306 Issue #306])
  * Changed "AI managed" auto-build settings to consider all such planets instead of individually manage them (similarly to regular AI players) ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=316 Issue #316])
  * Ability auto-upgrade planet defenses, similar to fleets ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=318 Issue #318])
  * The player's main fleet is now named according to the current language when a new game is started.
  * Fixed production screen showing wrong capacity in case no orbital factory was deployed yet.
  * Changed tax mechanics to boost taxes when the player has few planets and reduce taxes when the player has 10+ planets.


= Version 0.94.320 - Campaign finished =
  * Released: 2012-03-06 15:30 CET
  * Added planet dependant population growth and display of the rate in the information panels ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=69 Issue #69])
  * Added demand for fire brigade, look for the small fire icons ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=71 Issue #71])
  * Missions of level 4 and 5 implemented ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=216 Issue #216])
  * Reduced the effects of battle on the planet population ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=186 Issue #186])
  * All game videos have been accounted for (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=194 #194], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=193 #193])
  * Added ability to deploy ground units continuously by holding the left mouse button ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=261 Issue 261])
  * Idle ships will fire at rockets and bombs ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=298 Issue #298])
  * Player's stations and guns now fire automatically on closest enemy target ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=299 Issue 299])
  * Building under construction now uses mixed scaffolding ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=272 Issue #272])
  * The main campaign and single player campaign features the Game over screen with option to resume the current gameplay ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=301 Issue #301]).
  * Disable subtitles in options ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=302 Issue #302])
  * Settings to slow down the game in case of an incoming attack ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=282 Issue 282])

= Version 0.94.300 - More missions =
  * Released: 2012-02-23 16:00 CET
  * Missions 18, 19, 20 and 21 added ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=214 Issue #214])
  * Fixed Mission 16 crash ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=292 Issue 292])
  * Fixed issues due non-unique fleet ids ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=293 Issue #293])
  * When playing as non-human, alien special units are displayed in the equipment screen ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=293 Issue #293])
  * Fixed mission overlappings ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=293 Issue #293])
  * Mission 8 talk to the phsychologist now happens after two visions as intended.
  * Fixed Mission 5 mentioning Admiral Benson instead of Admiral Tullen ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=294 Issue #294])
  * Fixed issues with newly deployed Destroyer 1s not properly equipped, however, you need to start a new game. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=294 Issue #294])
  * Fixed infinite money glitch due selling equipment ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=294 Issue #294]).
  * Fixed Mission 16 reinforcements not arriving ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=294 Issue #294]).
  

= Version 0.94.200 - More missions =
  * Released: 2012-02-13 21:10 CET
  * Mission 17 added, level 2 complete ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=213 Issue #213])
  * Mission 18 added
  * Achievement sound ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=238 Issue #238])
  * Mission 2 reward text fixes ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=256 Issue #256])
  * Added mission 13 reward ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=289 Issue #289])
  * Fixed mission 5 unreachable garthog fleet ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=291 #291])

= Version 0.94.190 - More missions =
  * Released: 2012-02-10 14:00 CET
  * Added missions 13 and 16
  * Reduced population loss due space and ground battles (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=254 #254], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=279 #279]) 
  * Added subtitles to Achilles-Check message ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=276 Issue #276])
  * Fixed label for police station unit of measure ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=280 Issue #280])
  * Fleets on the starmap now move smoother ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=273 Issue #273])
  * Attack notification improvements ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=281 Issue #281])
  * Barracks had incorrect space health ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=283 Issue #283])
  * Fixed achievement "Defense contract" ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=285 Issue #285])
  * Fixed Map Editor initialization crash ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=286 Issue #286])
  * Fixed mission 12 stages and completion not triggering if the user didn't watch the briefing/debriefing messages. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=287 Issue #287])
  * Mission 6 starts immediately after promotion and your fleet is moved far away, just like in the original.

= Version 0.94.180 - Few enhancements =
  * Released: 2012-02-04 20:00 CET
  * Added Missions 12 and 14
  * Added triggers for Wife videos
  * Groundwar AI units now attack ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=277 Issue #277])
  * Corrected missing Achilles-Check video and sound ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=275 Issue #275])

= Version 0.94.160 - Fixes =
  * Released: 2012-01-29 17:00 CET
  * Fixed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=190 Issue #190], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=267 Issue #267]), auto-refill of bombs and rockets settings did not work correctly.
  * Implemented virus infection and propagation ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=125 Issue #125])
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=191 Issue #191]: audiovisual feedback if a planet can't be attacked
  * Fixed Mission 1 and consequences: Mission 5 will start only if you completed Mission 1. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=197 Issue #197])
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=109 Issue #109], ships without firepower won't respond to attack command (own and AI side inclusive)
  * Follow fleet working again and "attacks the attacker". ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=265 Issue 265])
  * Fixed Mission 3 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=209 Issue #209]), if you follow the fleet with one of your own and the attack happens, your fleet will automatically attack the pirates. If you managed to do a close escort, this will surely result in a space battle within a few seconds. 
  * Fixed issues related to Mission 8. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=242 Issue #242], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=225 Issue #225])
  * Fixed issues with Mission 9. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=244 Issue #244])
  * Fixed issues with some missions restarting once completed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=247 #247])
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=246 Issue #246], unable to create and equip new fleets.
  * Fixed ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=248 Issue #246], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=255 Issue #255]), Mission 7 trader protection problems
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=260 Issue #260], fire rockets from starbases, auto-refill of starbases too
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=250 Issue #250], battle finish screen ally losses.
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=251 Issue #251], AI deployed starbases had no weapons.
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=252 Issue #252], kamikaze management and crash
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=264 Issue #264], rockets were selectable and stoppable in spacewar.
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=257 Issue #257], AI managed planets should not produce stations and vehicles in Level 1.
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=268 Issue #268], error messages on the statusbar stay longer visible.
  * Added the game option to switch the mouse left-right button interpretation
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=270 Issue #270], attack command in spacewar affected all ships, not just the selected ones.


= Version 0.94.100 - More missions =
  * Released: 2012-01-21 22:00 CET
  * *You may need to start a new game!*. The remaining two missions from level 1 should start correctly, but if you ran ahead, you might get both of them at once.
  * Level 1 missions implemented ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=212 Issue #212])
  * Mission 1, 2 and 3 corrections and missing videos ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=209 Issue #209])
  * Missing "message from X" on the battle finish screen ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=217 Issue #217])
  * Mission 4 implemented ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=223 #Issue #223])
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=229 Issue #229]: ground units did not move correctly
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=230 Issue #230]: playing messages and quitting from bridge did not stop the message correctly
  * Fixed issues with full screen videos not stopping music. ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=232 Issue #232])
  * Mission 5 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=224 Issue #224])
  * Mission 6 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=227 Issue #227])
  * Mission 7 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=233 Issue #233], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=235 Issue #235])
  * Mission 8 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=225 Issue #225])
  * Mission 15 ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=226 Issue #226])
  * Fixed sound playback inconsistencies ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=218 Issue #218])

= Version 0.94 - Missions =
  * Released: 2012-01-15 13:00 CET
  * *Acknowledgement: Joe did a great job for this release!*
  * *You may need to start a new game!*. If you want to carry on with your previous Main Campaign progress, you can edit your save XML and change the {{{<world game='campaign/main'}}} to {{{<world game='campaign/main2'}}} in the root node manually.
  * Improvements to the AI ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=118 Issue #118])
  * Bug fixes (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=185 #185], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=188 #188], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=189 #189], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=199 #199], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=200 #200], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=201 #201], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=202 #202], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=203 #203], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=208 #208])
  * Added: mission scripting framework
  * Created missions 1, 2 and 3, see the Missions page. (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=197 #197], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=207 #207], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=209 #209])
  * Added: missing lightmaps ([http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=62 Issue #62])
  * Added: Use TAB key to display objectives (Issues [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=110 #110], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=198 #198], [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=206 #206]) 
  * Balance updates (Issue [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/detail?id=204 #204])

= Earlier =

See ReleaseNotesPre093.