#summary News archive.

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= April, 2011 =

*April 15., 2011*

Yet another weekend and yet another playable version to test. Please welcome version 0.90 with the long awaited fleet management features. You can now create, move and manage fleets, colonize empty planets. 

[http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/Game_Notes#Version_0.90_-_Fleets See the release notes.]

*April 14. 2011*

The equipment screen is complete and it is possible now to manage the fleets and move them around on the starmap.

However, we reached the point where the default quicksave/quickload is not enough to help in testing various scenarios. Therefore, I moved the Load/Save/Options screen development earlier and will release the new v0.90 with it.

Consequently, the game becomes more and more playable, which puts on the demand for thorough testing. Unfortunately, the gameplay mechanics lets you develop your first colony ship around after 3 hours of playtime; can't develop and play at the same time. This is where you, the community can help to diverse and multiply the testing power and coverage.

*April 10. 2011*

I've implemented the bar and database screens, improved and fixed the presentation on many screens.

Reminder: hit CTRL+O to take ownership of an empty or enemy planet, if you need to build more laboratories or factories.

[http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/Game_Notes#Version_0.89_-_Bar_and_Database Release Notes]

*April 8. 2011*

Improvements to the game mechanics and user interface. Quick save (CTRL+S) and quick load (CTRL+L) feature added. See the [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/Release_Notes release notes] and the [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/Screenshots#Version_0.88_screenshots Screenshots] for further details.

A long standing issue will be the morale and population calculation of the game. It is hard to design a proper mechanics which considers the tax, shortages, stadiums, etc. 

Please, start playing Open Imperium Galactica and if you encounter some strange situation, report it via the [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/list issues] page. 

*April 6. 2011*

I'm happy to announce that Open-IG is now playable - sort of. I've implemented most information screen tabs (except the aliens and fleets tabs). The rest of the tabs should work as expected. 

I've also updated the research and production screens to reflect the true status of the world in terms of capacities and technologies.

The third major improvements is the introduction of simulation: you can now build, upgrade, repair and demolish buildings; research a technology if you have enough laboratories; build ships and equipment; see how the planet morale evolves over the days; see the day-night cycles.

A temporary cheat: hit CTRL+O to take ownership of an empty or enemy planet, if you need to build more laboratories or factories.

*Note:* no options or load/save implemented yet.

= March, 2011 =

*March 30. 2011*

The colony screen mostly working. You cannot build yet (the backing model is still incomplete), but you can demolish/disable buildings. See [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/GameGuide the Game Guide] for a list of available keyboard/mouse options.

There are two other notable changes in the application:
  * A *Console Watcher* window should pop up on any program error. You can use it to report an issue.
  * The memory requirements are now set to 512 MB.

*March 22. 2011*

Open Imperium Galactica [http://bugs.sun.com/bugdatabase/view_bug.do?bug_id=7029238 helps] the Java 7 development :)

*March 20. 2011*

The new research and production screens are available as well as a hopeful fix for the infinitie restart bug on Linux machines.

*March 18. 2011*

Please use the project's [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/issues/list Issues] page if you have trouble starting or running the game. Without feedback, I might think everything works if the game runs on my Windows 7 x86 machines. (It turns out the game has startup problems on Ubuntu machines.)

*March 6. 2011*

Equipment screen created. Not 100% functional as many things will depend on the actual data model coming later.

= February, 2011 =

*February 27. 2011*

I added the promised new mini UI framework, which should allow me to implement screens more conveniently. In addition, I've improved the Testbed application with a proper ship walk screen. The equipment screen will come within a week.

*February 24. 2011*

I face two major inconvenience with the current screen design:

  * long resource loading times -> deferred or lazy (image) resource loading,
  * lack of composition -> component based approach instead of screen based approach.

I'll have to design a component system similar to Swing containers to handle events, rendering and layout, but with less overhead and complexity (due Swings aims to be a generic UI).

This way, building the remaining screens and reusing features such as arbitrarily labeled buttons and scroll-boxes should be much more convenient.

*February 12. 2011*

I've completed the Testbed application. In addition, the loading times should be now faster on multi-core systems. The testbed application is also available among the launcher downloadable modules.

I strongly recommend to use/download the launcher application which will take care of updating your existing installments.

*February 8. 2011*

I'm feeling a bit uneasy about neglecting this nice project lately. It seems so easy to do it since I converted and grouped the resource files: all I have to do is draw them on screen or play it through the speakers, right? 

After mining 1.7 million m^3^ cobblestone, dirt and sand, completing a major industrial software [http://www.reliawind.eu/ development], I feel ready to continue with research, and of course, hobby development of Open Imperium Galactica.

I'll try to set up some milestones about the following 6 months. See the
[http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/ProjectPlan2011 project plan for 2011].

= October, 2010 =

*October 31. 2010*

I've integrated the starmap and planet rendering into the main Open Imperium Galactica. You can now download the version 0.81 file.

Requirements:

  * At least 384 MB of memory
  * The [http://open-ig.googlecode.com/files/open-ig-upgrade-20100917a.zip open-ig-upgrade-20100917a.zip] upgrade pack.

I'm still working (thinking about) the promised launcher for Open-IG.

*October 3. 2010*

It's the yearly article time for my PhD. Therefore, I am unable to do effective work in Open-IG right now.

The next step in the development will be a Launcher with ability to automatically update the game files. In addition, the new Starmap and Planet screens will be integrated with the main game till the end of october.

= September, 2010 =

*September 18. 2010*

Just two Youtube videos about the MapEditor v0.4: [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mzrY9bO7tk8 480p] and [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x2g76kjZDzc 720p].

*September 17. 2010*

The newest MapEditor with version 0.4 is here!

  * Ability to Cut, Copy and Paste the selected buildings, surfaces or both.
  * Ability to create any custom sized map and resize the current map
  * Ability to clear buildings/surfaces that fell outside the map's current bounds
  * New visual option: Use a standard font (e.g. Courier New) for text instead of the classical font
  * New visual option: display locations where buildings cannot be placed

NOTE: the editor requires the [http://open-ig.googlecode.com/files/open-ig-upgrade-20100917a.zip open-ig-upgrade-20100917a.zip] upgrade pack.

*September 16. 2010*

The newest MapEditor with version 0.3 is here! [http://darksideunderflow.com/images/open-ig-mapeditor-p09.png Screenshot]

  * Improved resource management: the game/editor will automatically locate files and upgrades of interest
  * English and Hungarian text!
  * Ability to Undo and Redo operations on the map
  * Ability to Import, Open and Save maps
  * Toolbar with easy access functionality.
  * The name cells in the surface and building tables can be renamed and the editor remembers them.
  * The editor remembers the settings of its window and restores itself to it.
  * The editor maintains a recent list to easy access earlier maps

For the last time, it is advised to delete the *open-ig-config.xml* file before running the v0.3 version.

NOTE: the editor requires the [http://open-ig.googlecode.com/files/open-ig-upgrade-20100916a.zip open-ig-upgrade-20100916a.zip] upgrade pack.

To run the MapEditor, there is no need to download the rest of the game resources, only the latest upgrade pack along with the JAR file is necessary (32MB total).

The associated wiki page will be updated soon.

*September 15. 2010*

The next version of the MapEditor is released: version 0.2. Changes include:

  * Bugfixes in editing behavior
  * Rendering building with status information: powered, damaged, repairing, worker shortage, etc.
  * Ability to save and load the map.
  * Adjust the properties of the buildings: allocated energy & worker amount, upgrade level

Running the new map editor requires the [http://open-ig.googlecode.com/files/open-ig-upgrade-20100915a.zip latest 20100915a upgrade pack].

NOTE: The game resource file management has become a bit problematic. In the next versions, the program will automatically detect and utilize the resource ZIP files: there will be no need to manually specify them in general. For the current version. It is advised to delete the *open-ig-config.xml* before running the newest version of this map editor.

*September 13. 2010*

The first upgrade pack is now available. It contains fixes for various building images and their night-appearances.

In addition, a pre-alpha version of the MapEditor has been uploaded. You can play around a bit. For the usage, please refer to the [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/MapEditor Map Editor] wiki page.

*September 10. 2010*

I'm working on the new Planet surface renderer and a cool [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/MapEditor Map Editor]. It will be available later in this month for download along with the first upgrade pack.

= August, 2010 =

*August 21. 2010*

I've freed up some time and continue the development of the 0.8 branch. Until the next release, please check out [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/GameUpgradeSystem how to upgrade the game resource files].

= April, 2010 =

*April 8. 2010*

All resource files should be available now. [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/Install_Instructions_08 Installation].

*April 7. 2010*

Unfortunately, I have little time to develop Open-IG at the moment. I plan to upload the new game resource files and publish the available parts of version 0.8. See the [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/Install_Instructions_08 install instructions] page for further details.

I'm still uploading the resource files from a slow connection. Please be patient.

= January, 2010 =

*January 18. 2010*

I've created a small video presenting the recently developed screens: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qRSTZnWWGfY

*January 14. 2010*

Just a few [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/Screenshots screenshots] containing the newly developed screens.

*January 6. 2010*

I hope I'll be able to do the development more frequently now. As the game's (now independent) resources are practically available, all I need to do is to rebuild and rewire every screen. Still a tedious task because of those numerous and small pieces...

Until then, you can enjoy the screenshot for the new [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/MainMenu Main Menu].

= November, 2009 =

*November 20. 2009*

I have composed a small demo from the bar talk game mode. Please see the [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/BarTalksDemo wiki page] for how to use it.

If someone has the original English Imperium Galactica, you could help me with the proper english talk topics from the original.

*November 16. 2009*

I've been able to make some progress with the new resource location and load mechanisms. It will surely take a week until I completely associate each image with a field. If done, it will be much faster to (re-)compose the game screens.

I made the decision to include a new feature: [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/FeaturePlans#Building_upgrade_slots Building Upgrade Slots].

There is still one thing bugging me: how the remaining research time is computed, based on the available research labs? I can't figure it out. For example, a (1,1,0,0,0) research with (0,0,0,0,0) available labs will go up to 60% completeness before stopping. Is somebody willing to try to figure out the algorithm for it? It might need several trial and error runs with the original game.

*November 2. 2009*

I've uploaded a small sample of the new video files, so those who downloaded the new development player won't get bored. When you start the player and the setup screen arrives (or click on file-setup) you need to select the ig-video-sample.zip file then click Save and Run. See [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/Setup Setup] for details.


*November 1. 2009*

There is a slow and hidden progress behind the [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/Screenshots scenes]: the rendering of the ship walk, the bar and most of the database screens are ready, but not integrated in any way.

To make thinks work standalone, I have to re-design all existing screens and re-model the backing data structures. There are simply too many pieces to compose and test.

= October, 2009 =

*October 7. 2009*

Note again, that downloads marked as Deprecated and named with Developer is not meant for general download.

*October 1. 2009*

Note that the new VideoPlayer and video packs are currently for development purposes: this allows us to test the multilingual video playback and the creation of subtitles for the videos.

= September, 2009 =

*September 27. 2009*

I must admit, we are stepping on an uncertain field with these lots of resource files. On two fronts: uploading 1GB resources into Google Code is rare, and they tend to post fix-things: delete without a single warning. The second thing is ownership. I do it for fun and for free, but there are forces on earth who like to disrupt such kind of deeds.

Please be patient and don't download the game resources yet. Currently, Gergő Harrach and I are working on the subtitles for the videos, and it might happen that some videos and audio files need extra corrections to be made.

*September 26. 2009*

I've completed the packaging of the new video. The new VideoPlayer will be able to play the new (and only the new) video files along with selectable audio and subtitle. The new file distribution requires an [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/Setup Setup] program. Uploading all the audio and video takes some time, and the documentation is also coming for these new windows.

Note for the files: you'll always need the `*`generic`*` named files, as they contain language-independent data: e.g effect sound or audio for non-speaking videos. In practice, this means you don't need to download open-ig-audio-hu.zip and open-ig-images-hu.zip if you want only the English language (~65MB less to download). 

*September 19. 2009*

Note for the audio pack: Unfortunately, I put them up too early and without the music files. When version 0.8 arrives, please re-download all of them again, even if their version number won't change. Anyway, the audio format is in my [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/Audio_2009_Format Audio_2009_Format] which allows better lossless compression with ZIP than the original WAV.

*September 17. 2009*

The resource extraction goes well, in couple of days I'll finish it and create (english+generic+hungarian) downloadable packages for the images (10+10+10MB), audio (70+10+70 MB) and video (950 MB).

There are two subtasks, which could be performed by anyone willing to help:

  * Figure out the Bar discussion graph: e.g there are 4-6 response videos in the LOCAL directory of the game. One should run the original game and note the dialog options that can be clicked by the user and record which video gets played in response. You can use the  AnimPlay to compare the in-game and file videos.

  * Create subtitles for the videos (once the audio package is ready, it can be done for both english and hungarian). Unfortunately, there is no subtitle support yet, but I guess I can extend the AnimPlay to look for a subtitle file along the animation file and display it - this way you can adjust the subtitle position based on the spoken dialog. Currently at least, you will be able to write down the dialog itself - we will time it later. The subtitle file format should be plain simple: 

{{{
minute:second.millisecond-minute:second.millisecond The spoken text.
minute:second.millisecond-minute:second.millisecond The spoken text 2.
}}}

{{{
00:00.000-00:03.500 Meséljen, hogyan zajlik egy ilyen kutatás?
00:04.500-00:06.000 A kolóniákon kiemelt szerepe van az ilyen kutatóközpontoknak.
}}}

No in-text newlines and the file should contain text in UTF-8.

I also updated the AnimPlay with the latest hungarian audio-delay data. And don't worry about the ending of some videos - I made a small mistake in the auto-fade-out.

*September 3. 2009*

Thank you for the help in the identification. See the results on the <a href='http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/Credits'>Credits</a> page.
I started to split and transcode the game images - I hope it will clear my resource-whereisit-paralysis. 

I will create a package to contain common and language specific images. Expected combined size: ~50MB. Language specific audio: ~100MB per language. Animations: ~750MB total. I need to change the resource loading mechanism and the planned 0.8 version will be completely independent of the original game resources.

If someone is willing to donate his German, French or other language version, I can create a small utility program, which extracts the language specific part from your version (~180MB) and you can submit that instead of the entire 1.2GB game.

= August, 2009 =

*August 31. 2009*

In Hungarian

*FELHÍVÁS*

Feltöltöttem jó pár videót a <a href='http://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=lgc314&search_type=&aq=f'>Youtube</a>-ra, amelyek az IG eredeti szereplőiből mutat egy-egy videót. Szeretném őket azonosítani, hogy Credits-ben felvehessem a nevüket. Köszönet.

In english: call for identifying the voice actors of the Hungarian game videos.

*August 30. 2009*

I figured out why some videos show anomalous pixels when playing - I misinterpreted the differential coding and palette usage. I'll post the fixed player tomorrow.

I started a [http://groups.google.com/group/open-ig-discussion discussion group], because the game mechanic, multiplayer and other new features will need tough decisions, and I don't want to cast those decision on my own - we should discuss the options.

*August 28. 2009*

== TESTERS NEEDED! ==

But not for Open-IG at the moment! I'm about to implement the fleet management screen and I need volunteers, who extract the weapon statistics of the original game. The extraction is tedious, because: 
  
  * you need to create a fleet with one type of ship
  * attack somebody
  * on the space war screen, read the firepower value

For larger, mutli-hub spaceships, you need to do it multiple times with different weapon settings. Unfortunately, determining the aliens' ship firepower is much harder, as they are usually in pack and you get only an aggregated firepower value - not a detailed one.

Contact me to organize who tests what ships to avoid unnecessary overlapping. 

Thank you.

*August 27. 2009*

I have created a new package with version 0.72 . It contains the movie player fix for missing fade-outs and sound cuts. Plus, it contains an *experimental* feature: music. Of course, if you put any OGG file into the game's {{{MUSIC}}} directory, Open-IG is still happy to play it for you - in an uncontrollable, pseudo-random order. I plan to introduce an in-game or out-of-game (e.g plain old Java Swing window) jukebox sooner or later.

*August 25. 2009*

Upgraded the SpidyAniDecoder to insert an end fade-out into those videos, which have longer audio track than the number of frames/fps would indicate - similarly as the original game played it back. Because this 'hack' is in the decoder, all use places should automatically benefit from it: the in-game videos, the AnimPlay (now upgraded to 0.55) playback and conversion.

*August 24. 2009*

I uploaded two in-game videos from the current version: <a href='http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cpZPm0AZPT8'>Howto build a Hospital Planet to support 500 000+ people</a> and a more <a href='http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nSJ3vZCLfE4'>simplistic feature demo</a>. I advise to watch it in HD and on full screen.

*August 21. 2009*

I put the four wife videos on youtube: <a href='http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxofBDueRWk'>1</a>, <a href='http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kbm1-bq4eRg'>2</a>, <a href='http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_9oHxEJsbkE'>3</a>, <a href='http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7kRQde8hufs'>4</a>. Unfortunately, youtube has decreased the video quality - but the hungarian sound acting is what matters!

I also updated the AnimPlay to have a playlist automatically filled in from the ANI files from a given directory, plus added a batch conversion to PNGs & WAV files. Just select the files you want to convert and hit the button. If you have multiple CPUs, the conversion will be even faster!

= July, 2009 =

*July 9. 2009*

Unfortunately, I have to do my regular job and don't have time for Open-IG at the moment. It could take 2-3 months to develop it further. Good news is that I have now a pretty solid view about how I will implement the simulation part. Until then, the biggest unfinished properties are:

  * Equipment management screen
  * Space combat - ships, rotation, projectiles, etc.
  * Surface combat - tanks, radar, damage system
  * Diplomacy
  * Bridge + wandering around in the ship
  * Technology dependant rules - radar level implied detail display, fleet visibility, planet discovery
  * AI
  * Achievement system and display
  * Multiplayer

= June, 2009 =

*June 19. 2009*

  * Added the ability to place/remove items into the production lines and adjust the production properties.
  * CTRL+A will increase the inventory count of the currently selected technology.
  * Some management related information display. See features.
  * For my testing purposes, the game jumps right into the starmap after startup. If you want to watch the intro or title animation, hit ESC then click Quit/Exit and you get back t the main menu.
  * The game now complains if you try run it with less than 160MB JVM memory instead of just crashing silently.

*June 11. 2009*
  * Added the [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/NewFeatures new features] wiki page which describes the enhancements in Open-IG
  * Added information about the technical details behind the [http://code.google.com/p/open-ig/wiki/Surface_Maps planetary surface maps] 

*June 1. 2009*
  * Added production (F5) and research (F6) screens with animation
  * Unresearched buildings do not show up on the buildings listing
  * User CTRL+R to completely research the currently selected technology
  * You might need to run the game with at least 160MB JVM memory: -Xmx160M

= May, 2009 =

*May 29. 2009*
  * Some navigation and UI behavior fixes
  * Buildings now consume energy and workers, can be deactivated.
  * Added inventions information screen
  * CTRL+SHIFT+O own every planet on the starmap, CTRL+I own enemy occupied planets, CTRL+M takeover the current planet, CTRL+B toggle build phases, CTRL+D toggle building damaged status


*May 23. 2009*
  * Added ability to place buildings onto planets
  * Added building listing to the information screen
  * CTRL+C clears all buildings from the current planet, DEL deletes the selected building

*May 20. 2009*
  * Updated the AnimPlay application. Under the hood, now it uses the same method for rendering images and audio. Better yet, I've added 3 options to
    * save the animation as an animated GIF file,
    * save a series of PNG files containing every frame
    * save the animation sound as a WAV file

*May 18. 2009*
  * Updated the Wiki pages.
  * Released version 0.67. Major enhancements:
    * Display planets, colony info, fleets on the information panel
    * Planet/Colony button displays the appropriate surface type and variant of the selected planet
    * CTRL+. to toggle between default/neighbor/bilinear/bicubic interpolation of the starmap background
  * Added screenshots of the new screens

*May 16. 2009*
  * Updated the Wiki pages.
  * Released version 0.65. Major enhancements:
    * Game model for world, planet, fleet
    * Render fleets
    * Render minimap
    * Navigate using minimap
    * List player's planets
    * List player's fleets, cycle through the fleets
    * Display planet/fleet info
  * Check out the new CTRL+K, CTRL+N and CTRL+F 'cheats'

*May 4. 2009*
  * Updated the Wiki pages.
  * Progress is slower than I expected. Creating a good and solid data model supporting skirmish, campaign and multiplayer is hard. But I uploaded the 0.6 version, which includes some style and bug fixes. 
  * Planet surface rendering is now correctly displaying multi-tile elements. Added the original campaign's ~100 planets with radar enabled. I also added the open source [http://www.jcraft.com/jorbis/ JOrbis] OGG player library. I had to slightly modify its source code to adhere the checkstyle rules used in the project and removed lots of unused codes from it. When the application will support custom campaigns, it will allow custom music/sound playback from .ogg or .wav files.

= March, 2009 =

*March 7. 2009*
  * Created a package for the newest version of the program. Now, along with the JAR file, I've put the source code into a ZIP file. As the program evolves, unfortunately, the default 64 MB memory for double-clicked JAR programs becomes too sort. There are several options:
    * Create/use a command line script with -Xmx128M parameter
    * Change the JAR file extension assignment and include the -Xmx128M parameter

= February, 2009 =

*February 19. 2009*
  * Thanks to Open-IG and a new wide screen monitor, I was able to find two bugs in the latest JDK regarding the new D3D rendering. See http://bugs.sun.com/bugdatabase/view_bug.do?bug_id=6801614 and http://bugs.sun.com/bugdatabase/view_bug.do?bug_id=6804860 for further details as soon as they are available.

*February 3. 2009*

  * Due some strange rendering behavior in 6u11 I strongly advise to use 6u7 on Windows for running Open-IG. The strange rendering occurs when the game windows are resized to a very large size (>1500 pixels). On these resolutions, the graphics gets misplaced, the dotted lines get garbled. Possible reason might be in the new D3D rendering pipeline (or just my videocard driver is too old).

= January, 2009 =

*January 28. 2009*

  * Made some enhancements in audio, screen switching and on information screen.

*January 19. 2009*

  * Updated the !AnimPlay utility. Now it allows to stop the playback, and resize the playback window.

*January 18. 2009*

  * Fixed some minor issues in the !AnimPlay utility.
  * Created a demonstration application to show the current state of the game.